{section: mainmatter}
# Prehistory
My start in community started with AdminScripting.com, meant as an adjunct to my first bestselling book, _Managing Windows with VBScript and WMI_. It started simply, as more or less a blog, running on PHP-Nuke. But shortly after, I had a conversation with Jeremy Moskowitz, who'd just launched GPOAnswers.com to support his won work (it's now GPAnswers.com). Our colleague, Brett Hill, had launches IISAnswers.com, and the two of them had a shared landing page on GetTheAnswers.com (which Jeremy still owns). I loved the naming, and ScriptingAnswers.com was born.

This is relevant, because in 2005, I sold ScriptingAnswers.com to SAPIEN Technologies, and took a role within their company. In 2006, we were asked by Microsoft to attend the launch of PowerShell at TechEd Europe in Barcelona, to demonstrate SAPIEN's PrimalScript editing software and show how it already supported PowerShell. Shortly after that trip, I started thinking about how deeply fragmented the VBScript community was. There were forums _everywhere_, some of which were populated by _extremely_ rude people who basically answered, "you can Google that" to every question. I wondered if there was a way to start fresh with PowerShell, and create a space where everyone could participate. A single nexus for a new community, which could provide a central, easy-to-discover jumping-off point for whatever other work people were doing. Having been slow on the uptake, PowerShell.com, .org, and .net were registered, so I set up PowerShellCommunity.org (later, PoshComm.org was registered for it as well).

I knew that communities needed time and money to succeed, and so my idea was to set up a chamber of commerce, which qualifies as a nonprofit in the US. Members of the chamber would be companies, like SAPIEN, with an interest in PowerShell. SAPIEN's contribution would be my time, Dell signed on to provide server hosting, Microsoft kicked in some cash, and so on.

The nonprofit bit didn't go well. The IRS argued that Windows PowerShell was a commercial product, as you needed to buy Windows to get it or use it, and that organizations supporting a commercial product couldn't be nonprofits. We forged ahead anyway.

But in 2008, I believe, I decided to step away from SAPIEN and return to life as an independent contractor. As my time was SAPIEN's contribution to PoshComm.org, I elected to step away form the website, so that the sponsoring companies could put their own guy or gal in place. Dell--which had an interest in PowerShell mainly through their acquisition of Quest Software and its PowerGUI software--provided a replacement community leader.

Things initially went pretty well, I thought. They re-themed the site a bit, using a blue theme; I'd originally gone with orange just to stand out from the sea of blue websites, although one Microsoft MVP commented that the color looked like something from a toilet bowl. Unfortunately, the community didn't last. This was my first lesson learned: _communities might not take a lot of time, but they need constant doses of attention_. The leader Dell had appointed just didn't have the time to be on the site for a few minutes every single day. When questions in the forums started going unanswered, and the site wasn't changing and growing over time, people gave up on it.

This unfortunately contributed to the deep level of community fragmentation that I'd hoped to help avoid. Another company, focused on their own corporate needs, bought the PowerShell.com domain name and launched a site. They initially dumped a lot of money into keeping it alive and steady, including paying people to be responsive in the forums, to blog, and so on, but as they started to realize being in "the PowerShell business" wasn't all that profitable, they let the site stagnate. Eventually, it became integrated with a larger, cross-topic community platform. This was my second lesson: _communities need to exist for their own reasons; commercial concerns will always, eventually, get distracted or change directions_. 

I was also seeing a ton of great people doing amazing blogs on PowerShell, but they were all hard to find. Decent forums that didn't answer with a "you can just Google that" were few and far between. And so, in 2012, I decided to try again.