# Getting it Off the Ground
We went through a tremendous number of ideas in 2012 and 2013, all with an eye toward making the site useful and active, and helping our visitors discover all the other great things going on in the community.

The forums were a key: Google _loves_ it some Q&A forums, and as the forums grew they brought us the most traffic. Our audience had different behaviors than you see on sites like StackOverflow.com (indeed, their administrator-centric site, ServerFault.com, doesn't work as well as StackOverflow.com because of those different audience behaviors). So our forums took a lot more personal attention, and we probably spent about an hour a day in them. That might not seem like a ton of time, _but it's got to be done every single blessed day without exception_. We'd arrange coverage when the main Forums person went on vacation, for example. Lesson: _communities work when they're responsive_. You can't just deploy a website and hope for the best.

We tried a directory of local user groups, a task that many have attempted and none have conquered. User groups in our space proved to be too ephemeral, and it was impossible to keep the directory accurate.

Activities like The Scripting Games brought lots of traffic. Maybe too much; the Games' concept of having nine "events," each of which would garner hundreds of entries, each of which expected to receive an individual grade and comment, got to be too much. Even with a baker's dozen of MVPs helping score entries, it was just a mammoth task. We also realized that the audience was growing more skilled and sophisticated, and so the original entry-level, "let's lure 'em into the technology" approach of the Games was losing appeal.

We tried an ersatz certification program for PowerShell Toolmaking, called "Verified Effective." The pass rates were fairly dismal, suggesting a need for much stronger education in the community. The actual participate rate was pretty low, too, far too low to justify the resources we were spending, although we did charge money to take an exam. So that got spun down as well.

For a short while, we offered a webinar series, and had a team member dedicated (well, in their spare time, of course) to finding presenters. These were largely well-attended, but presenter availability petered out.

Not everything was a failure. A series of free ebooks took off like gangbusters, and remain an important open-source part of the community to this day. A free continuous integration server for open-source projects handles some of the community's most important code, including code that's now delivered as part of Windows itself.

There's another lesson: _don't be afraid to try new things, and stop doing them if they're not working_. When the cost is low, sometimes it's fine just to run with an idea and try it out, to see how it goes. And the reinforced lesson is that _communities need a little bit of your time, every day, or they'll wither._ If you can build a group of engaged participants, _their_ time "counts" toward keeping the community alive, but they themselves will likely need some of your time.

There's yet another lesson to be learned: _activate volunteers and work to keep them engaged_. We had several efforts that likely would have been more successful in the long-term if our core group of "community leaders" had done more to retain the engagement of our volunteers. It's possible that some volunteers felt adrift and on their own, versus supported and appreciated. Our core group could likely have spent less time on direct community activities, and more time on supporting and encouraging volunteers. That's something I feel we improved at over the years, but it probably made our off-the-ground phase longer than it might have been.

I think we also could have done a better job of getting people to write for the site. PowerShellMagazine.com did well at that for years, focusing solely on articles. I believe we needed to fight several battles that we simply didn't understand, early on. One, most people don't think they have anything to contribute. This "imposter syndrome" is something we only came to really understand much later. Two, most people can't make the time to write even short pieces on a regular basis, and have difficulty coming up with ideas of what to write about. Three, people who have lots of ideas and conquer their imposter syndrome tend to want to make their own name for themselves, not be buried in a "collective;" I think we could have done more (and still could) to address that concern. It's possible that many would-be contributors felt their work would simply be showcasing the "brand" of the community's founders, all of whom were well-known MVPs in the space; we perhaps still need to find a way to make a community where people's contributions showcase _them_ more strongly.

But otherwise, our get-it-running period was pretty successful. By 2016, our Q&A forums were largely self-sufficient, thanks to an increasingly large and more knowledgeable group of folks who were willing to receive email notifications for new posts, and who were careful to offer friendly, accurate advice whenever they could.

But I need to step back a bit. In the mid-2000s, a company called NetPro had started a Directory Experts' Conference, or DEC. NetPro played mainly in the Active Directory management space, and DEC was a way for them to create a better, "stickier" community effort with the really hardcore people in that space. Over time, they added other topics, like Exchange, to what became known as The Experts Conference, or TEC. They'd just added a small, 50-person "PowerShell Deep Dive" track to TEC when Quest Software acquired the company. Quest was pretty much expected to spin down the TEC program, as they had their own user conference they'd probably focus on. That meant the nascent PowerShell Deep Dive, which had become Microsoft's best way of connecting with hardcore PowerShell users, would probably vanish. As we were getting the organization off the ground, we'd always had in mind that those Deep Dives would need to be replaced with something. We figured it'd be a year or two before we got to it.