# Nonprofit
My previous nonprofit experience with PoshComm.org made me pretty wary of trying again, but we were anxious to avoid paying taxes on money that _we'd eventually be spending on expenses anyway_. Again, we'd been running ourselves as a "not for profit;" nobody was getting enriched from the organization. Quite the opposite, in fact; most of us had significant personal outlays to keep things running.

But the situation had changed since my 2007 attempt with PoshComm. 

Microsoft had open-sourced the "PowerShell Language Specification," opening the possibility for others to produce a compatible shell or their own on any platform. "DevOps" was something PowerShell helped enable, but wasn't itself a commercial product or technology. Desired State Configuration, or DSC, existed as an open-source project for Linux. The line had become blurry.

We renamed the corporation from PowerShell.org to The DevOps Collective, Inc., to better reflect our new, broader, and hopefully more nonprofit-friendly mission. We resolved to fund educational activities and scholarships (which we do, to the tune of $50,000 a year for an organization called TechImpact and their IT Works program). We added "+ DevOps" to Summit to de-emphasize the PowerShell aspect. The result was a 60+ page application, [available here for the first time](https://github.com/devops-collective-inc/community-history/blob/master/combo1023.pdf). Note that some portions, such as our corporate bylaws, are not included, although those were provided to the IRS. Those things are fairly boilerplate in our case, and excluding them cut down on the file size. Notably, our accounting was in great order, as we'd sensibly had an accounting firm almost since day one. Nobody had ever taken money from the organization. We _could_ have paid salaries--most nonprofits do--but nobody was keeping a "profit." That, hopefully, showed the IRS that our "not-for-profit" attitude was serious.

Our accounting firm, selected mainly for their experience in working with nonprofits, allowed that it was a good application. But they cautioned us that the IRS was unlikely to accept it without challenge. Fortunately, [they were wrong](https://github.com/devops-collective-inc/community-history/blob/master/P.org-NonProfit-IRS.pdf), and the IRS accepted our application not only without challenge, but _retroactively_, which meant we recovered some $5,000 of the taxes we'd already paid.

This placed us in a unique position of being able to accept tax-deductible contributions, which we began to do in order to better fund our educational programs (like IT Works) and to launch our own entry-level PowerShell "OnRamp" track at Summit, and to offer full-ride scholarships to that track for young people from traditionally underrepresented groups. That all kicked off in 2018 and 2019.

The scholarship also created a somewhat unexpected level of additional community engagement. A whole bunch of people, for example, collaborated on [_The PowerShell Conference Book_](http://leanpub.com/powershell-conference-book), donating all proceeds to the scholarship and fully funding three of them for our 2019 event. People would voluntarily pay for our free ebooks, again funding the scholarship. We've received direct donations via channels as diverse as PayPal, Benevity, Fidelity Investments, and more. In many ways, this told us that our community was broader, more diverse, and more caring and generous than we'd ever thought. They go way beyond the activity you might see in our Q&A forums, way beyond the articles people write, and so on. The takeaway here: while we often think of PowerShell.org, the website, as "the community," it's not. The community is _people_, not a website, and they go far, far beyond what the website offers. Even members who don't answer questions, don't write articles, or don't even attend Summit, _are still members_, and they still contribute in some very important and impactful ways.

Suddenly, our community seemed to be becoming something that could last for a really long time. Maybe longer than us.