# The New Look
In late 2018, as part of our process for handing off day-to-day operations of PowerShell.org to a new generation of leaders, we embarked on a major rebranding for the community.

We started with the PowerShell.org website itself, applying a clean, simplified visual theme. But we also went a bit beyond the look-and-feel, adding a robust new Community Directory (http://powershell.org/members). We wanted to emphasize the fact that PowerShell _has_ such a rich, diverse, and helpful community of _real people_, and so the Directory provides real names, pictures of real faces, and links to those people's blogs, websites, and other contributions. It'll likely expand over time, incorporating more information about this wonderful group of people, all of whom deserve to be featured.

We also launched the third logo for the website. If you glance at the cover of this book, you'll see our first logo, adopted when we launched the site in 2012. It used the original PowerShell logo, with its blue gradient, and added a similarly-colored Earth globe in the background, meant to represent the community's global reach. 

Our second logo anticipated Microsoft changing the PowerShell logo to a "flatter" look, consistent with the "Metro" design language adopted in Windows 7. PowerShell itself didn't adopt this kind of logo until Windows 8 or Windows 10 (we forget), but we wanted to be ahead of the game. The Earth globe became a simple circle.

It was pointed out quite a bit that the circle kind of lost its meaning, with the overall logo just being "PowerShell with a circle," that didn't say much about a community. So, in late 2018, we adopted the third logo. Completely unique, it features a circle of stylized people embracing each other in a circle, with the basic PowerShell logo in the middle. It's our attempt to really "sell" PowerShell.org as a community of people. PowerShell.org, the website, isn't "owned" by its day-to-day administrators; it's a platform _for the community_. It's a place where anyone can ask questions, answer questions, publish articles, and bring their accomplishments to an audience that--as of late 2018--included over 85,000 visitors a month.