{section: frontmatter}
# Foreword
I've been a part of the PowerShell scene since the beginning, a bit before the product's official launch in late 2006. I've been involved with a number of community efforts, but I'm at a point in my career where it's time to start stepping away and focusing on other priorities. With that in mind, I feel as if I have some history, lessons learned, and insights that I don't want to be lost. Thus, this book.

It's my hope that this can serve both the PowerShell community and other technical communities, as a way of sharing what's worked, what hasn't, and so on. I certainly hope that what I've helped start with PowerShell.org can continue, but I want to use this book to make it clear that "continuing" doesn't happen magically. It takes real human effort.

It's almost impossible for me to write in anything other than "my voice," which is why I've gone ahead and taken authoring credit for this book. But you won't find any other names in this book. That's not because I did all the work myself--Lord, far from it. And it's not because everyone who worked on this community doesn't deserve credit. I've chosen to not name names because I want _you_ to see yourself in this story, even if you've previously not been involved in the community or its operation. I don't want you reading this, seeing a name you know, and thinking, "oh yeah, they're a superstar, I could never do that." I want this book to be about _the community_, in a sense that it's bigger and more important than a group of names. Yes, PowerShell.org was created and nurtured by people, but those really could have been _any_ people who chose to. It's not really a story of the people who did make the choice; it's a story of their choices and outcomes. I hope that makes sense.

This book is hosted in a public [GitHub repository](https://github.com/devops-collective-inc/community-history) and I hope that, over time, others will choose to contribute to it, to keep the story going. Eventually, I hope they'll choose to remove my name as author, because they'll have made the story their own. After all, it's the community, and it's story, that we're all trying to document here. 

-- Don Jones, co-founder, PowerShell.org